# Identity and Consent Management meeting

#### *February 28, 2024*

<br>

## Attendees

| Companies | Attendees |
| --------- | --------- |
| Deutsche Telekom AG | [Herbert Damker](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~hdamker), [Axel Nennker](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~ignisvulpis), [Shilpa Padgaonkar](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~shilpa.padgaonkar) |
| Ericsson  | [Elisabeth Mueller](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~elisabethmueller), [Jan Friman](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~Jan_Friman) |
| Gapask    | Rajesh Murthy |
| GSMA      | Mark Cornall, Toyeeb Rehman, Tom van Pelt |
| KPN       | [Huub Appelboom](https://github.com/HuubAppelboom) |
| Nokia     | [Tanja De Groot](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~TanjaDeGroot), [Gaurav Agarwal](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~gaurav2192) |
| OIDF      | [Bjorn Hjelm (OIDF)](https://github.com/bhjelm), [Joseph Heenan](https://github.com/jogu)  |
| Shabodi   | Kevin Howe-Patterson |
| Singtel   | [Foo Ming Hui](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~mhfoo) |
| Spry Fox Networks | [Ramesh Shanmugasundaram](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~sfnuser), [Parichaya Shrivastava](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~lfsfn) |
| T-Mobile PL | [Dawid Wroblewski](https://github.com/DT-DawidWroblewski), [Artych, Rafał](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~rart) |
| T-Mobile US | [Karabulut, Murat](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~gmuratk) |
| Telefónica | [Jesús Peña García-Oliva](https://github.com/jpengar), [Diego Gonzalez Martínez](https://github.com/diegogonmar), Guido García,<br> Juan Fabio García, Pedro Ballesteros, David Vallejo,<br> Juan Antonio Hernando, Diego Yonadi |
| Vodafone  | Sönke Peters, [Sachin Kumar](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~sachinvodafone)|
| Vodacom | [Surajj Jaggernath](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/display/~surajjj) |

[Camara People](https://wiki.camaraproject.org/browsepeople.action)

[Participants](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/PARTICIPANTS.MD)

<br>

## Agenda

1. Housekeeping Topics
   - Meeting moving from MS Teams to LinuxFoundation Zoom cf [Camara Calendar](https://lists.camaraproject.org/calendar) and [Readme](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/README.md)
   - Recording of of our Zoom meetings and AI generated Transscripts
   - Using suggestions in reviews (the `+-`-button)
   - Move minutes to Camara Wiki
3. Issues and PRs. Priority discussions (most active issues and/or dependencies for release v0.2):
    - Profile work [https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/121 ](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/122)
    - offline access https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/123
    - Discussion on Issue #100 "Claims to be used in oAuth Access tokens".
    - Discussion on Issue #108 "Question to documentation update for security schemes".
    - Discussion on Issue #104 "Alignment of Client Credential authentication / authorization using API Gateway Pattern".

5. Action Points
6. AoB

<br>

## Housekeeping 

Axel thanked contributer who provided text changes and asked them to use +- button to add their text suggestion to their review. Clicking the +- button in a review adds a suggestion which can easily be added to the document.

> \`\`\`suggestion
> 
> This is the suggested new text
> 
> \`\`\` 


## Discussion the Way Forward regarding the Profile

Axel said that we are having good discussions and comments on https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/121.
There is good progress. Some topics should be tackled in their own issues referencing #121.
Our work should concentrat on one profile and TEF agreed that the most support seems to be for the DT proposal.
TEF agreed to concentrate our efforts on one PR and suggested to close https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/113 but Axel suggested to maybe put it in Draft-mode.
The group agreed that topics in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/121 that lead to longer discussion should be discussed in their own issue.
Axel mentioned that Shilpa already created some issues. TEF mentioned the new ideas regarding login_hint and aud clarifications as potential new issues.
New topic should move to new issues. TEF: purpose is a non-trivial issue. Also: pairwise identifiers.
Move forward with the DT profile. Merge into a 0.2 version, and tackle open issues in the 0.3 version.
TEF proposed to use the label 0.2 on issues that we seem likely to make it into the 0.2 version of the profile.
TEF said that `purpose`, `offline access` and pairwise identifiers should be removed from https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/121 to make it easier to agree on the profile and close the PR. The tackle these open issues in the next version.
Shilpa said that she wants a DT internal discussion first. Axel said that he thinks that offline access can make it into the current version because Jesús seems to be OK with the proposed text when authorization code flow is concerned and "only" CIBA-related text for offline access is missing.

Proposal from TEF create a 0.3 version of the profile and work on integrating 0.3 issues into that. No reaction to that proposal.
(Axel thought that this might lead to merge conflicts if we do this too soon, but discussion moved on to other topics)

Conclusion: move long discussions into their own issues, mark those issues with 0.2 if they go in this version, mark them as 0.3 if they go into the next version.
DT internal discussion on removing the purpose, offline access and pairwise identifiers.

## Discussion about [offline-access and Refresh Token PR](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/123)

Axel provided text for Offline-access for authorization code flow that Jesús said matches the GSMA text, but the CIBA related text for offline-access is TBD.
Axel asked for some days to provide CIBA-related text.

## Closing Remarks

Axel kindly asked participants to comment on issues and to review PRs and most importantly contribute text changes to PR.
WGs thrive only if members become participants. So, again please participate. Please comment and review.



<br>

## AoB

- Next call schedule: [March 13, 2024](https://lists.camaraproject.org/g/sp-icm/viewevent?repeatid=57069&eventid=2258113&calstart=2024-03-13).
